Okay.
Um, so today we are going to be
continuing, um, our Jonah series
is what I'm kind of, uh, labeling
this and over the last couple of
weeks, we've covered six verses.
Um, so how many verses you
think we'll cover today?
Anybody?
No, we're actually going to cover
the, almost the rest of the chapter.
So good news.
Yeah.
It kind of speeds up a little bit.
Um, and you'll, you'll kind of
see the theme of, of really kind
of, it's getting to this point.
Let's see kind of what happens.
And so over the last couple of
weeks, we've really dealt with
several different things, right.
With the story of Jonah, but the
verses, we're not going to read
all of the verses this week.
So we're going to actually
start in verse six.
So Jonah chapter one, verse
six, again, just a reminder.
If you don't have a Bible and you
would love one there's one on the
next steps table, it's yours free,
um, on your way out, grab it.
Um, but if you don't use.
Handheld Bible, use one on your
phone again, download the Bible app.
That's a great way to
carry the Bible with you.
But, um, the, the first, basically
several verses that we dealt with
is really just the story of Jonah.
Who's a prophet, which can a prophet
hears from the word or hears from
the Lord, a word from the Lord.
And he proclaims that word.
Well, this time it didn't like
what God wanted him to say.
And so he ran and he seemed to be
at peace, sleeping in the bottom
of the boat while a storm came.
And that's kind of really
where we pick up in this.
But I kind of want to start off with
this idea, um, because we've talked to
you about a couple different things.
One is Jonah had the wrong attitude
towards the word of God, the will
of God, the people of God, right.
His circumstances.
But he also.
Was really just choosing
to live a second rate life.
And that's really what we dealt
with last week is he chose
to live a second rate life?
Well, what does that mean?
That means that God has a first
rate life for him to live a
first rate life for us to live.
What does that first rate life look like?
It's as really within his will
and it's God's best for us, but we
continually choose God's second best,
or maybe sometimes it's our, it's our
third best of what God has for us.
But I wanted to start with this,
this, this, this question anybody
ever heard there's no, I in team.
But did anybody realize that
there's actually me in team?
So it is all about me.
Do you ever notice that about the world
and sometimes even about our lives?
Is it, if it affects me, I want to
basically I want it to be about me.
I want to be able to
control my circumstances.
I want to be in the most
comfortable position.
I don't want to be bothered or
questioned about what I believe
in what I don't believe in.
It's kind of this me too movement,
basically where people are
like trying to find these ways
of, Hey, It's all about me.
Um, and, and maybe you don't recognize
that in your life, but if you'll start
thinking about some of the things
you hold strong to about that is your
comfort zone or your place, right.
Or maybe it's what you do.
And if that routine changed,
you would really get frustrated
because it's all about you.
And maybe you don't realize that, but
we, we look at this story with Jonah
and Jonah is coming to this point where
it's, he's living a self centered.
Um, and it's not self-center life,
even though maybe that's what
he's living, but centered live a
self-centered life and meaning a
selfish mentality and how he's living.
And so we saw that just even those
first couple of, of stories where
part verses that we dealt with is
this idea behind Jonah, just not
really caring about anybody else
around him, other than himself
getting away from the presence of God.
And so when we think about just this
idea of what is Jonah doing, I know
for me, as I continued to study this
Jonah living a self-centered life really
reminds me maybe of the self-centered
life that I live and maybe the wrong
attitudes that I have towards the will
of God and baby, really the second
way of life that I'm choosing to live
rather than the life that God has for.
And I think I asked this question
maybe a couple of weeks ago,
but this idea of do you want to
make a difference in your life?
Right?
Do you want to be a better version of
yourself today than you were yesterday?
And majority of us raised our hand.
I think some of us didn't want to
raise her hands because we didn't
want maybe to even be held accountable
to that idea of living maybe a
better life than what we currently
live, maybe within the will of God.
And, um, but I think most of us want to,
but our selfishness gets in the way from
living the life that God's playing for us.
And so today we're going
to kind of see how.
Is dealing with this same thing, right?
The self-centeredness right.
The wrong attitude towards
what God wants them to do.
And so let's jump into the text so
we can see this a little bit more.
So we're going to start in verse six.
I know last week, verse six, we
read, but it's going to be key in
our transition into verse seven.
So it says this can Jonah chapter one,
verse six, it says the captain approached.
Speaking of Jonah and
said, what are you doing?
Sound asleep, get up and
call out to your God.
Maybe this God will consider us.
And we won't perish.
And the next verse says,
come on, the sellers said to
each other, let's cast lots.
Then we'll know who is to blame
for this trouble we're in.
So they cast lots and the
lot singled out, Jonah.
And then they said to him, tell us
who is to blame for this trouble.
We're in, what is your business
and where are you from?
And what is your country
and the people are you from.
And so he answered them.
I'm a Hebrew and I worship
the Lord, the God of heaven
who made the sea and the dry.
Then the men were seized with
great fear and said to him, what
is it this that you've done?
And the men knew he was fleeing from the
Lord's presence because he had told them.
And so they said to him, what,
or what should we do so that
the sea will calm down for us.
And for the sea was
getting worse and worse.
And he answered them.
He said, pick me up and throw me into the
sea so that it will calm down for you.
Brian know that I am to blame for
this is a great storm that is against.
Nevertheless, the men rode harder
and harder to get back to dry land,
but they couldn't because the sea was
raging against them more and more.
And so they called out to the
Lord, please, Lord, don't let us
perish because of this man's life.
And don't charge us with his
innocent blood for the Lord.
You have done just as you please.
And then they picked him up and threw
him into the sea and the sea stopped
raging and the men were seized with
great fear and the Lord of the Lord.
And they offered a sacrifice
to the Lord and made.
So, where do we see Jonah
living a self-centered life?
It really comes to this
picture in verse six to seven.
The starts this idea of this.
Self-centeredness see self-centeredness
will always catch up to us.
So just so you know, whenever I'm
talking about this, Jonah would be
somebody who would be characterized as
someone who served the Lord, anybody
that has given their life to Jesus
that says I'm a follower of Jesus.
You have given your life to the Lord.
And so in this picture, Anybody
that is a follower of Jesus
that lives a self-centered life.
It will catch up to you.
It will always catch up to you
meaning this, that, that will not
cut it as a follower of Jesus.
It just won't.
And there's some reasons why
maybe you'll understand why we
shouldn't be okay with that.
Right.
And so we'll, we'll find that
everything doesn't revolve around.
And when I even say this is when it
comes to our relationship with Jesus
too many times, we come to faith in
Jesus and we spend the rest of our lives
focused on only our relationship, rather
than on the relationships that he's
called us to go live with other people.
And so that's even part of the selfishness
that I would say are self centered living,
I would say with this, but we see this,
it says, as Jonah woke up the captain
or the, by the captain, he realized that
he was caught running from the Lord.
Anybody ever had a kid come in
with chocolate on his face after
you told him not to get into the
chocolate, maybe that was you.
And the parent asks you, did
you get in the chocolate that
I told you not to get into?
And the kid said, see, it's that moment
where God called out Jonah through.
The captain and says, Hey,
get up, call out to your God.
Maybe he will hear us.
And the storm will stop.
And Jonah had been caught it's that moment
that he had the opportunity to repent and
turn back to the Lord and you know what
he said, and well, how do you know that?
Well, if you look, if you go from verse
six to verse seven, the captain's asking
him to get up and call out to his God.
But then in the next first you
see the seller say, come on,
let's cast lots to figure out who.
Problem.
This is there's something missing here.
Jonah's response that we
would expect from him, right?
He had been caught if he knows it's
his fault, this storm is there and
he refuses to take ownership of it.
He refuses to take ownership of it.
And I think that's so important to
see in this is he was confronted
and even just, he refused to do it.
He knew.
Did he ever call it to God?
We don't even know.
And so let me ask this question.
I love asking questions to you guys.
Why do you believe Jonah?
Didn't call out to God from
verse six, he had the opportunity
to, he had been called out God.
I mean, I'm telling you just
the same way as we call it.
The kids that have the chocolate on
their face, they know they're wrong.
Jonah knew he was wrong.
Why do you think he didn't
call out to his God?
I didn't feel like he could
approach gun or Ascot.
Okay.
Didn't want the answer.
That's another good one.
What else?
He didn't want to acknowledge.
He was hearing him.
That's good.
Anybody else?
Yeah.
That's the other thing, right?
He didn't want to be thrown
into the ocean maybe.
Right?
So he, maybe he understood that it
was his punishment would be that.
See, I go back to, why do kids
dismiss certain circumstance?
Why is it.
Say, huh?
Because of the consequences
of what they did.
And it's, it's, it's interesting
at times as a follower of Jesus and
we, maybe we lived our lifestyle for
Jesus for a time and maybe we gave
her life to Jesus at one point in
our lives, but then we have walked
away and the Lord confronts our sin.
And rather than admitting and turning
back to the Lord, we deny because
we're afraid of maybe consequences.
We're afraid of the.
I don't know what it is, but I know
that at times we wrestle with this and
obviously Jonah wrestle with this as well.
But we do know this, that God
has placed storms people and all
different circumstances in our
lives to lead us back to him.
Again, lead us back to the first rate
life that God has planned for each one
of us to be used for his glory and to
be in a right relationship with him.
He puts these things in our place,
not for our bad, but for our.
But sometimes we recognize them
just like Jonah did maybe as bad.
And so again, we see verse seven, right?
Um, he says that they cast lots
to see who basically it was
since Jonah wouldn't fess up.
So you understand what casting lots was.
It's something that they would
use in order to see the will
of God in a circumstance.
You'll actually, if you remember
in the book of acts, the
apostles actually do this to.
Figure out who's going to be the 12th.
Apostle since Judas had obviously
had, um, rejected the Lord, but it
was a form of seeking the Lord's will
before the holy spirit was present.
So for us, the holy spirit is present.
And so we don't necessarily
need to cast lots.
So if you're wondering,
where do we get those lots?
So we can do this every day.
Don't go find them.
There's not a need.
If you have a relationship with Jesus,
we have the ability to seek his word.
And seek him through prayer
to get that confirmation.
We don't need casting of lots, but
that's what they did in this time.
So Joanie didn't need to
see the results, right.
He already knew it.
And so I think about this,
God gives us all opportunities
to come clean and repent.
It's called conviction.
It gives us all the opportunity, but.
Many times we don't take that opportunity.
And so this is what I think
about, and this is what's going
to happen to Jonah, with my kids.
There's those times where you're like,
somebody better tell me who did this.
And if you don't, there'll
be worse consequences.
When I figured out anybody I've been told
that this was God's way, God gave him an
opportunity to repent and he chose not to.
And so they cast lots,
they figured it out.
God figured it out.
And the storm kept getting worse and
worse and the storms of our life.
When we reject God, when we
refuse to repent turn, we'll
continue to get worse and worse.
Well, why would God do that?
Because he loves you too much to leave
you and the condition that you're in.
I think that's the picture that
we all need to consistently
hear is God loves us so much.
He doesn't want us to continue to
living a second rate life, a life.
That is self-centered one that
is not for his glory and for our.
So I want you to just think back those
of you who were here last week, you
know, I was talking about this idea
of what is it maybe that you're living
in a second rate life in, I don't know
what area of your life maybe you were
thinking through last week, but thank
through last week, maybe an area that
you thought through, what is that area?
That I'm just not living
my life fully out for God.
The question that I want to ask
you is, did you recognize it
and then walk away last week?
Or did you recognize.
Repent of it and begin turning and
walking the way that God's called you.
And maybe you'd say, Hey, I don't even
remember what you preached on last week.
Good news.
Go to inspiring hope church.com.
You can go back and rewatch the message.
And I would encourage you to ask God
as you've maybe rewatch this message.
God, where is it that
I'm living a second rate?
And as we're hearing this week, where is
it that I'm living a self-centered life
and actually turn to the Lord and ask
for forgiveness and then ask people to
invite them into your life, to help you
overcome that area of your life for your
good and for the benefit of other people.
See, if not, we're just like Jonah, we
hear God bringing up about an opportunity
for repentance, but we reject God
and we continue on living without it.
And I just don't want us to miss.
In this.
So let's, let's keep
looking at these verses.
So we look at verse eight, obviously
the sellers figure out who it is.
Then they ask a bunch of questions
to Jonah and let's look, let's
look at these questions here.
It says, I think this is so interesting.
They said, so then they said to him,
tell us who is to blame for this trouble.
We're in.
Well, for one, they
just singled out Jonah.
So Jonah's got to know, this says,
tell us who's to blame what your
business is, where you're from.
Where's your country, what people
you're in for me, I don't know.
Would've asked any of those questions.
I would've just been like you idiot, like,
but they didn't ask all these questions.
So what did he do rather than
responding in humility and asking for
them to forgive him for putting them
in this storm, he responds a little
bit prideful and if you don't catch
it the first time I didn't either.
And so I started studying
this a little bit more.
When you look at this, he really responded
in a very prideful way, and I could just
see him kind of boasting about this.
He says, I'm a Hebrew and I worship
the Lord, the God of the heavens
who made the sea and the dry land.
See, he didn't say, Hey, I'm, I'm the
one responsible now later on, he does.
But he doesn't say, Hey, I'm
the one responsible cause they
asked whose whose fault is this?
It doesn't say that.
But he begins to boast about that.
He's a Hebrew, which again, they
asked that question was a Hebrew,
but I'm, I'm worship the God of the
heavens and the sea and the land.
It's funny how he wants to claim
God now in front of people who.
Look at him, maybe more like as though
he's something special rather than
being humble about, I did worship
the Lord and I'm running from him.
That's not what he said.
So I look at this instance as is he had
the opportunity to really be humble, but
he wasn't, he was worried more about how
he was perceived in front of these guys.
And so let's look a little
bit deeper at this, right?
When we think about it, we
think about when pride and
selfishness comes up in our life.
Right?
What does it lead us?
It leads us to become numb to
what's important to God and become
focused on what's important to us.
What is that?
It's selfishness at times we want to
look better than we are rather than.
Be humble in front of
people and actually broken.
One of the conversations that
we had yesterday with the w with
the lady was this idea behind
everybody is broken in some form.
We're all dealing with
brokenness and struggle, and
we're here to help one another.
We're not here to look like
we have it all together.
We're here to say that we are in
a desperate need for the Lord.
And yet Jonah refused to
show that the he needed help.
And so how do we respond?
Let me ask this question.
How do you respond?
Um, and be honest with this.
When somebody calls you out for
maybe a sin in your life or for
a fault, how do you respond?
Cause I know how I respond,
anger being defensive.
I don't ever do that.
What else?
Anybody else respond?
Somebody respond with grace.
Like thank you.
Why, why don't we respond with.
What was that?
We don't want to admit our faults
because we're very selfish minded.
We're going to defend ourselves.
It's all about us.
And it's about my feelings and it's about
what, you know, and, and we begin to
want to protect our image or justify our,
how we act and, and trust me guys, I am.
The I struggled with this same
thing, but it's how we respond
though, because I think these are
the moments is there's times where
we respond in very like anger, right?
We respond in such a way that we're
wanting to just justify ourselves.
But when conviction reigns over,
there is many times where, like
me and Brittany usually we'll have
this conflict within the marriage.
Right.
One of us will point out something else
and we have to come back and apologize.
Hey, I hear you now.
Do we do it every time?
We should we?
Yeah, but even Jonah, it just took so
long for him to recognize his faults.
And even whenever he did, we're going to
see where it seemed to be limited on this.
But when obviously we get called
out for things, a lot of times we
want to justify ourselves, right.
We begin to attack others.
If you're anything like me, you
also, if somebody calls you out
about one thing, you're going to
find whatever fault they have and
you're going to call it out on them.
See, we like to attack.
But God's not called us to do that.
He has called us to be humble.
And this is the part about church is
that we should, when I say church as
a church, we should be able to be a
part of each other's lives, right.
And speak truth into each other's
lives and actually hear it.
Um, and, and, and this is where I hope
we get to, as a church, we continue
to get to that place as a church.
Right.
So as we see this really Jay Jonah just
kind of finished up these couple verses.
Jonah seemed to be claiming, you
know, Hey, I'm, I'm a Christian.
I follow God personally.
Who were you?
Um, and so he was prideful in that.
So we see this right.
Self-centered living will always catch
up to us, but self-centered living really
causes us to avoid our responsibilities.
Um, because we don't want to
be the one that's at fault.
We don't want to be.
And we're going to see
this right in verse 10.
This is what Jonah says.
It says in the middle men were
seized with great fear and said to
him, what is this you've done for?
The men knew he was fleeing the Lord's
presence because he had told them.
Did you notice that Jonah, at that
again at, at this point Jonah's
still, hasn't taken responsibility.
He's he's given his title is given
who he follows, you know, all these
things, but he has still not taken
responsibility for what they asked
whose fault it was until later.
But the way that the resellers are
spawned in great fear at the moment that
he says who he follows, do you notice
that that Jonah's become numb to it?
And it doesn't say Jonah was fearful.
And it says the sellers were fearful.
It seems opposite, but I'll go
back to this as followers of Jesus.
At times we can become numb
to the fear of the Lord.
No.
Now Ben, should we be fearful to the Lord?
Doesn't he love us?
Absolutely.
The fear is the understand of his
position and control over our lives.
Not as fear as though he scared.
Okay.
And I think that's the hard part when
we look at this and there's a, there's
a verse that talks about the fear of
the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
And these men obviously showed
that wisdom, but yet Jonah
did not show that wisdom.
So they responded the way I believe
that Jonah would have responded.
Right.
So they said, what have you done?
So the moment they realized
that Jonah could have prevented
them from, um, obviously all the
destruction that they're dealing.
But as we look at this, the
verse 11 is so key with this.
If you look at the last part of parcel
of it, so it says, so he said to them,
or they said to him, what should we do
so that the sea will calm down for us and
says the sea was getting worse and worse.
And so this is the moment, the
more that Jonah rejected the
Lord, the more the sea got worse.
So I'm just taking life
application from the word.
The more that I reject the Lord.
The more storms, the more things
will come into my life that will
be trying to draw me back to him.
And so those are those moments where
don't wait, don't keep rejecting the Lord
because he is wanting to bring you back.
He's wanting to draw you back
to repentance, or maybe he's
wanting to draw you to him.
And so we understand based on Jonah's
story, that this is what God does, right.
He allows these storms to get
worse in our life, maybe to test
us or to draw us back to him.
But verse 12 is really an interesting.
Verse when we look at this.
So J Jonah answered their question and it
says, throw me into the sea so that the
storm will calm down for me or for you.
Excuse me for, I know I am to blame.
So finally, Jonah admits
he takes ownership.
I'm the one to blame for everything
you're in, throw me into the ocean,
but there's a couple of things that
I don't want you to miss on this.
He said, you throw me into the ocean.
Somebody tell me what he could have been.
I get a jumped in the ocean.
Why do you think he wanted them to throw
now again, we can go with the fear side
because he was afraid scared to throw,
but why else do you think maybe he
didn't want to be thrown off into the
air, throw himself off in the ocean.
Just jump off anybody.
So think about this for Jonah to
throw himself off and to kill himself,
especially from a believer standpoint
would be a negative thing, right?
He killed himself, but if somebody
throws me off, they murdered me.
It's going to seem better.
It's going to look.
Right.
He's he's passing the buck
is what he's really doing.
And here's the thing.
When we think about this he's
avoiding responsibility yet again,
he has the ability to repent.
He has the ability to jump off himself
and he refuses to take responsibility
and the places on somebody else to do it.
Oh man, that's tough.
I don't know if you've ever
placed responsibility on somebody
else to step up to the plate.
Um, but when you do that, maybe if it's
in your home, whenever you're, you're put
place in your spouse in that situation,
maybe it's somebody at work where you're,
you're forgetting your responsibilities
and you're just letting them take it on.
It is a bad position to be in,
especially as a believer to do that.
Here's what I would say.
When we look at this, there's a
couple of things when I think about
this thrown off, right, is that he
definitely could have just jumped off.
But when we think about him
asking him to throw an off, he
didn't care for the sellers.
Again, he didn't care when he got
on the boat to invite them into the
storms that God had in his life.
And he didn't help them.
He was actually saying, Hey, if
you throw me off, it'd be murder.
Maybe the Lord will punish
them for throwing them off.
Now you'll see them later, ask the Lord
not to punish them, but he was willing
to risk their lives so that his life.
Would be saved or his life would
not go out the way that maybe
he thought it was negative.
And it's interesting how we
invite people in to some of
our crazy situations like that.
But there's a second thing.
Right?
The great storm said, he says the
storm had calmed down for you store.
That was interesting with
Jonah, Jonah understood.
At least at this moment.
He was not saying the storm will slow
down for me or to come down for me.
He didn't care about his situation,
anybody or anybody ever got to a point
in your life where you really just
feel like that you're not worthy.
You're just like, you're no good.
You can't be, you can't
come back from this.
Maybe that was the moment
that Jonah was at, right.
Maybe Jonah just felt like
he can't come back from this.
Maybe he had ran too far from God
and that he knew that there was
no way this storm would interrupt.
See, I, I think about this as this is
an important part for us, because I
had to kind of stop and think through
this, we are God's greatest creation.
And when God is bringing us
through a storm, if we wonder if
God loves us and if God would ever
take us back, the answer is 100%.
Yes.
He already said yes, that he would
forgive you of your sins and it
would bring you back in and he would
use you to give you that first rate
life that God has planned for you.
He would guide you in.
But too many times, we're
like Jonah, we've given up,
just throw me into the ocean.
Your life will be saved.
I don't know about mine.
I don't know what God will do.
We can have the confidence to know our
God loves us and that he will always
forgive us if we'll just admit it.
And that was the one
thing that Jonah refused.
He refused to take responsibility
for this circumstance.
And I think that is so tough.
So, let me ask this question.
So whenever we're in the storms of our
life, maybe we're struggling with St.
Things maybe we're struggling with, with
maybe God's trying to change our minds
and some different areas of our lives.
Um, and you just want to give up what
are some things that we can do to
overcome this way that we feel, what
overcome the ways that we feel about
maybe being too far out, too far away
from God that we can't be forgiven.
Repin.
Okay.
Yes, absolutely.
That's a great start.
What if you don't feel like you're
strong enough to figure it out?
What should you do?
Ask for help too many times.
We're too prideful.
We don't want to admit that we're broken
and we don't know how to figure it out.
Your greatest response should be.
And the cool part is who we
are as a church is to say,
this is a place to say help.
I don't know what to do.
I don't know how to repent.
I don't know how to overcome my pride.
I don't know how to take responsibility.
It's okay.
And then you can have somebody come
alongside you and say, I've been there.
Let me help you.
Let's take the word of God.
Let's take the grace of God.
Let's take the prayer that we
have and the encouragement that
we have to help you overcome this.
Don't fight your battles.
I don't find them alone.
And in this whole story, you're
going to see Jonah obviously had the
presence of God, but yet he rejected
that, but he didn't have the presence
of people around him to support him.
And that's what I love is that when
we are dealing with maybe times where
we're rejecting, what the Lord's
called us to do, we have people
around us to encourage us back to it.
Don't miss that part.
So self centered living will
always catch up to us, right.
It'll causes us to avoid our
responsibilities, but this
last part I think is so.
So I want you to lean in on this self
centered living will, will really cause
us to miss out on God's plan to save the
lost, to save those who don't know Jesus.
When we live a self-centered life, we
miss out on being a part of God's big
story of redeeming people, bringing people
back to him, to relationship with him.
And you may say, well, gotta use somebody
else, any, he will because that's
who God is because he has a plan, but
he's also had a plan that you would.
But we reject it because we're
just, we're too uncomfortable.
You know, I think about what
the coders are doing, right?
They're going with the business to start
this group and they could have easily
said, you know, what's more comfortable
to come and just be more of a participant
than more of a leader of a group, but
they're like, no, we want to step out of
our comfort zone and be a part of this
first rate life that God has for us.
See, God's inviting us
all into those stories.
And so where do we see
this with Jonah's story?
Let's look at verse 30.
Um, and so it says this, nevertheless,
the men rode harder to get back to dry
land, but they couldn't because the sea
was raging against them more and more.
There's something missing here.
These men, the sellers, people who
didn't know God at all, because they had
gods, they worshiped were not one true.
God had more compassion than Jonah.
See, they were rowing as hard as
they could to save Jonah's life
because they knew if we throw them
off the ship, there's a good chance.
He's got.
But, you know, one things I don't see in
here, I don't see Jonah grabbing a, an
Oren rowing to try to save their lives.
Jonah missed out on an opportunity
to save, to, to really show
the true colors of who God is.
It's amazing that they did that.
Right.
But, but Jonah could've and so he
was supposed to be the one trying
to save them from eternal death.
And he's sitting on the
sidelines avoiding this.
Anybody ever had that moment where you
saw God moment to be able to speak truth
into someone's life or share the love
of Jesus and you walked away, anybody
ever feel defeated when you walked away?
I've been there.
I have been there.
And it's that moment where I
think like, I w like, why did,
is did Jonah fill that to Jonah?
Feel like, man, I'm really
missed the boat literally, but
like, did he miss the wrong way?
Like, what did he do?
I don't know.
And I see this, if we look at the end
of this verse, as well as the, and the
sea was raging against them, more and
more what's happening, somebody give
me the what's happening to the storm.
It's getting worse.
So, you know, as you begin to continually
reject the Lord, he will bring more
and more things into your life.
As a child of God, he will do this
more and more things in your life to
bring you back to him, to recognize
that's not the place he has.
And, you know, you may be asking
the question, how, what does he use?
He uses people, circumstances and storms.
If you're here today.
And you're wondering, man, God, I
actually, my life's pretty good right now.
What, what storm could it be?
You know, maybe it's just this message
that God's given you the ability to
hear this message today, the word of
God today that you needed to hear.
Don't wait on the storm.
I keep saying this.
I don't want to wait on the fish
to have to swallow me to get
the point of what God speaks.
That sounds scary.
I don't want it.
I want to deal with whatever
God's called me to do today.
And so as we look at this, um, verse
14, let's just continue on verse 14.
It says, um, so they called out to
the Lord, please, Lord, don't let us
perish because of this man's life.
And don't charge us for
as innocent blood for you.
Lord have done just as you please.
So now we see an opportunity
for Jonah to step up and.
But who does it first?
It's the sailors.
They recognize their need for God's to
forgive them and to not judge them for
the sin that they're getting ready.
They feel like that maybe they're
committing by throwing them off there.
So they're asking God to forgive them.
Don't cause this to go against them.
Right.
They recognize the
significance of this moment.
And Jonah was too
prideful to ask for help.
He missed an opportunity.
So I made that statement.
Proverbs 16, 18 pride comes
before the destruction and
arrogant spirit before the fall.
If you're sitting in this room right
now, and you're having a prideful moment
because you don't want to be called out,
you don't want to admit that you need God.
Be clear that the word says the
F uh, that, that we understand
that pride comes before the fall.
When we are too prideful
to ask God to forgive us.
And so they came to the conclusion, right?
That it was the will of
God to, to throw them off.
And so they threw them off, right.
They finally threw them off, throw
them off and the storm stops.
And here here's the thing.
I would assume this, this thought
somebody who doesn't follow the Lord,
obviously they saw a lot of God moments
in this, but the storm stops when
they just go back to the normal life.
I'm great.
The storm stopped.
Let's just keep on going.
You know, we're going to keep on going
on a better life, but they didn't,
again, they recognize that the Lord.
Was was who he was and
that they feared him.
And it says that they, if you look
at verse 15, it says, then they
picked up, Jonah threw him into
the sea and the sea stopped raging.
And the men were seized with great fear
and they offered a sacrifice to the Lord.
So they did not miss the opportunity
to really worship the Lord.
That was that sacrifice.
They worshiped the Lord.
They thank the Lord for saving
them and to not casting that
judgment, a thrown donut off again.
C Jonah could have been
a part of their story.
Jonah could have been
So let me share a different
version of this story that I
think could have been Jonah story.
The book of Jonah would have been
a lot shorter, but here's what I
think the story could have been.
You get to verse six, right?
The captain comes into Jonah, Jonah,
Jonah, get up, call out to your God.
Maybe he will basically save us.
And here's what Jonah did again.
I'm giving you the alternate version.
Jonah gets up and he gets on his knees.
God forgive me of my sin.
I recognize I shouldn't have ran from you.
I'll go to the people of Nineveh.
Please save us.
And the storm stops and those
sellers and that captain goes Jonah.
Jonah.
Thank you so much.
We know that the God you
serve is the one true God.
Let's worship him together.
Let's offer sacrifices of Thanksgiving
to the Lord and let's turn the ship
around to get you back to Nineveh.
See that could have been the story of.
But there's so much more of
the story because of Jonah's
rejection, wrong attitude, second
rate, living, selfish mentality.
And I don't know if any of this
reigns in your heart or mind at
times, and you struggle with this,
but God had a better path for Jonah
and he chose the wrong direction.
Now we'll get into the story where
Jonah now is eaten by this big fish.
And there's a big, long list of
repentance and things like that.
That we'll see that finally
led Jonas to repentance.
But man, guys, I don't think we need
to wait for a fish to swallow us.
I know that's just a relative term.
Just don't go to the ocean I guess.
But you know, there's something that
maybe God will use to, to, to bring
you back to him onto the life and the
path that he's called you to live.
I, one of the things that I, as I
become a believer and I feel like I've
lived this, this, this way since I
become a believer and maybe it's just
everything that I was saved out of,
I keep praying God don't let me miss.
What you have designed me for
like, don't let me miss out on
your God designed opportunities.
Have I at times?
Absolutely.
But it seems like every time I ask that
the Lord gives me another opportunity
to say yes, in a tough situation.
And I know this, I've got to see
so many people come to faith in
Christ, start following Jesus because
I've chose his ways over my way.
Now there's going to be a
little bit more of this.
So let's look at this.
Right?
So instead of Jonah being a part of
right, the salvation stories of these
sellers, he wasn't a part of that.
Right?
So instead of living, maybe the story that
I shared with you, the alternate story,
he's now going to be swallowed by a fish.
So Jonah chose a self-centered life,
which caught up to him because he avoided
taking responsibility because he missed
out on the God's plan to say the law.
At least on this boat.
And I know you guys are gonna be like,
Hey, down the road, he actually goes
and preaches and innovate repents, but
he still missed out on celebrating.
He still missed out on
a huge part of that.
So I thought I started thinking
about this Ephesians five.
One says this.
He says, imitate God, therefore as
dearly loved children, does anybody
know if you've studied enough
about Jesus that did Jesus lives?
Self-centered no.
He said lifts selfless so
much so that he gave his life.
And for me, and he gave his
life for us so that we could
have life to go live for him.
And I think about that, that,
that God has given us each the
opportunity to live a life for him.
And what's good for us.
Right.
And so I, you know, one of my favorite
verses it says, you know, pick up your
cross daily, deny yourself and follow him.
And it's that idea that
every day it's a choice.
To say no to self and say yes to
Jesus to be a part of his plan.
So now this is the question.
Does my life have to suck?
I remember thinking this, I know this
may be straightforward, but I remember
thinking this when I was going to give
my life to Jesus, I was like, but now
I'm going to go live a boring life.
And you know, it's not
going to be fun anymore.
I don't get to do this and
I don't get to do that.
And I'll get to do that.
And I walked through that for a solid
year until I came to a realization.
That alive, lived out a first rate.
Life lived out a selfless
life, lived out for Jesus.
Jesus's way better than a selfish life
lived out from me, way better, guaranteed.
And so I want you to know this, that we
are choosing to live a second rate life.
When we choose to live a selfish life.
When we start living, how
God has called us, we start
experiencing fulfilling moments.
We start seeing life change, not only in
ourselves, but in other people, we start,
start liking ourselves a little bit more.
We start really understanding how much
control we don't have in situations
and how much control God does have.
We begin to have more peace, hope, faith,
love more grace and mercy in our lives.
We begin to see God at
work in everything we do.
Wow.
I'm telling you the first rate
life's way better than a selfish.
Here's the question what's stopping you.
I mean, is it, is it a self-centered life?
Is it a wrong attitude like
Jonah was dealing with?
Um, I don't know what it is for you.
Maybe you just, haven't
given your life to Jesus.
Maybe you haven't fully
surrendered your life and said,
Lord, I'm yours, no conditions.
And maybe that's you today.
And if that is you today, I don't want
to extend this to you that you can
know the Lord before you leave today.
There's no, there's nothing
stopping you from knowing the
Lord and giving your life to him.
And now beginning to live the life that
he's called you to live outside of the
same thing that Jonah had, the opportunity
you lay down your pride and you recognize
your need and you repent and you ask
God to live inside you and help you
live the life he's called you to live.
That's it.
So during this time of invitation.
So here's what we have every week.
I was talking about invitation.
What is invitation, invitations,
and opportunity to consider all
that God shared with you today.
And so I've found this in most
settings, whenever a pastor preaches,
every person in the room could go
out and write down what they heard.
And God told those 10 people, 10
different things, because God spoke
to you directly through this message.
So I just would encourage you this
during this time of invitation.
Maybe God has called you to do something.
I don't know if it's to, to, to
change something in your life, to
repent in an area of your life.
And to begin to walk in faith.
I don't know if it is to give your
life to him and if it is, what is your
next step, everybody has a next step
in this room, but what is your next
step and giving your life to Jesus.
It is just admitting that you need him.
And so during time of
invitation, this is what I do.
I stayed in the back.
I don't have my mic on, so, you
know, but I stayed in the back and I.
Counsel with people, anybody that
has conversation questions about
the, the message to questions
about salvation, to questions about
what does it mean to overcome some
storms in your life, whatever it
is, I'm here to walk alongside you.
And really honestly, all of us are,
but I want to be there for you.
So during time of
invitation, come talk to me.
Maybe it's right after service.
You come talk to me,
but don't leave today.
If the Lord is leading you to consider
what it means to follow him and to
live the life that he's called for you.
But if you've given your life
to Jesus, this is my last point.
If you've given your life to.
Don't miss the opportunity today to
lay down, whatever is holding you back
from living the life he's called you
to, maybe it is a self-centered life.
You've just got to give it up.
It's not about you.
It's not about me now.
Here's the thing.
You could lay it down today and
tomorrow you can pick it back up
and that's what too many of us do.
Lay it down today.
And then when you wake up tomorrow,
ask the Lord to help you lay
down again, invite somebody into
your life to help you later.
And then you get to begin to
see God move in your life.
Like you've never seen before.
So I'm going to pray and
we'll stand in worship.
And then, um, just take some time
to consider what God's taught you.
Lord Jesus, we love you.
And Lord, we're thankful for
you that your word is truth.
And that Lord today, I pray Lord
that the, the example of Jonah
Lord, maybe in a negative way,
Lord is maybe teaching us, um, Lord
that maybe we're seeing ourselves.
And this story way too much, Lord, we're
seeing ourselves live a self-centered
life, a life that only worries about
us and not even about your will and
your, your purpose in our lives to
help others experience your hope.
So, Lord, I just pray that today, each one
of us considers maybe what you're drawing
out of us Lord to change about our lives.
Lord.
Or the, the thing that I worry so much
about, and I guess I shouldn't worry Lori,
because you're in control, but that too
many of us are working for our salvation.
And what that means, Lord, I just know
that is, is that you would never have
us work for our salvation because it's
already been done on the cross Lord.
You gave your life so that we could live
a life full of freedom and forgiveness.
So Lord help us know today, Lord, that
the weight maybe that we feel of not
living the life that you've called us
to Lord is not ours to be, to really
carry Lord, but it's yours to carry.
And Lord that today, as we surrender
Lord, that you will pick us up,
dust us off and use us to help reach
those in our lives to know you.
And so Lord, we love you and we
pray this in your heavenly name.